---
layout: post
title: "REDDOT"
date: 2017-11-11
category: puzzles
---

And before BAPHL 16 (and thus even worse-remembered... sorry!) was the REDDOThunt! This was an online australian-style 48-hour hunt by team Flower Power/ogopogo based in Singapore! It was their first time running this style of hunt, and to be honest I wasn't sure what to expect. But it was very fun!

I signed up as 🕶🦈🕶 secretly sharks 🕶🦈🕶 with fellow Chicagoan trendsetter colin, and we were joined for a few hours by trendsetter ian & new-to-puzzles daniel. By the time I got out of class on friday morning, two of the puzzles were already solved, and I was afraid the hunt would be over too soon (the curse of Mystery Hunt 2017?), but we didn't finish until midday Saturday, and that felt like exactly as much Hunt as I wanted. 

I got to see and actively work on all the rest of the puzzles, and had a good time putting my cryptozoology, mixology, reality TV, and economics knowledge into use in round one. I also nabbed a fair number of ah-ha moments (which, lets be honest, is about 70% of Why We Like Puzzles). Both metas were both quite easy, which I find I prefer to difficult metas, and acceptable hard to back-solve from -- which is a must in an easy meta. That said, back-solve we did, enough to win "The Reverse Engineering Certificate for dedicated backsolving". <3 :D

The puzzles in the second round had some particularly hard jumps, and for the most part we got stuck about 2/3 through the puzzle. One exception was Katniss -- the maze-like game was long, confusing, and I am not aware of any team that managed to solve it as intended. We didn't even try, as it seemed like too much of a time sink after one playthrough. Gloss, Beetee, and Foxface we were close, but missed the final thing-to-do. In Gloss, that final cluephrase was hard to parse, dang. But of course we did 100% the hunt, coming in 4th place. How? Well, first off, we solved meta 2 with just 3 answers (Morphling, Johanna, and Wiress) and figured out the theme of the inputs. Then, the Final Puzzle was particularly lovely, containing bits that you had to match to all the previous puzzles and apply their corresponding "trick" to. I really, really liked the final puzzle. And it helped us a bit to figure out what was going on with puzzles we hadn't quite solved yet! But in the end, much of the backsolving was just googling person's name + theme of the puzzle and guessing until something worked. Not very satisfying, but did assuage my need to keep staring at the puzzles until they were solved.

Overall, I really liked round 1, I liked the easy-but-hard-to-backsolve meta structure, I loved the callbacks in the final puzzle, and I liked the length. One full day of puzzling + a bit more with a small team was satisfying and not overwhelming. While I wouldn't say no to more mystery-hunt-size extravaganzas, I am generally not a fan of week-long aussie hunts (the puzzle burnout is real), and this shortened time-frame did a lot to overcome the frustration that I feel often comes with the format.

Also -- something I need to think about in the future is how spoilery these recaps should be. For now there are few if any, but that's likely just because I don't remember the hunts well enough to spoil anything even if I wanted to. Future puzzle updates will hopefully be both more interesting and more insightful.

Anyways, BYE (and thanks for the hunt, REDDOT organizers!) 