---
layout: post
title: "BAPHL"
date: 2017-11-10
category: puzzles
---

	I recently went to BAPHL (Boston Area Puzzle Hunt League) 16 on October 8th as part of ⚀⚁⚂⚃⚄⚅Gambling World⚅⚄⚃⚂⚁⚀ with some other [pi] alumns! I flew in for the long weekend to visit friends, talk some science with my old lab & nasa astrobio, and to SOLVE PUZZLES(yass).  

	Unfortunately, it's now been a while since the hunt, so my writeup will be pretty non-specific.

	BAPHL is one of my favorite hunts, because it requires you to physically go places around Boston, and generally has a high density of location-based puzzles. I think I've learned something new about the Boston area in every BAPHL I've ever participated in, from old T stations to the history of the Harbor Islands! This year I learned about the history of Central Square from a where's waldo style "find the missing letter from a tiny section of this giant mural" puzzle. The mural in question is in the graffiti alley next to H-Mart, and I must have walked by it a thousand times without ever really looking. If you're ever in the area, check out the pictures of old central square, they're pretty cool! 

	Anyways, this year was very light on theme ("squares"), but had some pretty clever puzzles. The biggest drawback for me was that scoring was done by total time from the start of the hunt, as opposed to time spent puzzling. I think the trendsetters as a whole tend to enjoy long breaks between rounds for snacks, exploring the area, bathroom breaks, etc -- so I disliked feeling that we had to rush to get a better score. Not that scores really matter, but On Principle, we didn't feel like stopping for lunch was #worth. Don't worry, I still took the time to get a weird honey-basil seed drink at H-Mart, delicious honey-coffee at 1469 in Inman, and individually-wrapped (why) swedish fish from Google. But I definitely ended the hunt hungry, and I think the scoring system (and obviously my own preoccupation with doing "well") was to blame for that.

	There seemed to be a lot of word-puzzles, but they were quite enjoyable half-logic-puzzle half-crossword-answer mishmashes. I spent a lot of time on them, and I think I missed the more novel puzzles this time around. Oops! I particularly liked one that involved overlapping crossword answers in a spiralling checkerboard pattern. There were some fun twists, too. I'll link it if it ever shows up online. I also enjoyed watching my teammates write poetry, argue about disney movies, and do a bunch of weird stuff with whiteboard magnets (dances? mazes? I'm not 100% sure what went on there, but we got a souvenir whiteboard out of it!). As a result, we now have a beautiful(ish) team limerick. 
	<3

	 	The puzzling Trendsetters Galactic
	 	Developed an interesting tactic
	 	Regardless of risk,
	 	They spammed CARLTON FISK,
	 	The results were quite anticlimactic




